---
title: About me
author: David
date: '2020-04-02'
slug: about-me
categories: []
tags: []
---

## Hey hey
My name is David. I am a data analyst in the UK, currently working in the finance sector.  
*Background*
I did my undergrad degree in Physics.
I then did a PhD in solid state physics. At the time I thought this didn't include a lot of data analysis, actually it did - I just wasn't writing code. I worked in a team of less than 10 researchers.  
After completing my PhD I spent the next 2 years in the civil service, writing official statistics and doing research into educational assessment. This felt more like being a read analyst as I spent more of my time writing code. I worked with over 20 researchers in an organisation of ~200 colleagues.  
Since then I have been working as a data analyst in finance. I work in team of over 70 analysts, one of many analytics teams in an organisation with over 200,000 colleagues.  

This is to say: I've worked in academia, the public sector and the private sector. I've worked in small, medium and big teams. I haven't seen it all, but I've seen a range.

### New posts
There will be new posts. I will try to make them as correct as possible, to my knowledge, at that point in time.  
That said, I will get it wrong sometimes, when I don't - eventually it will be out of date (even my opinions expire and are replaced with better ones).

### Current best version
I will try to maintain a '*current best version*', that way if you land on a post after googling your current problem and find yourself following a blog post 5 years old and you keep thinking "there's probably a better way of doing this now" - I will try to link you to that better version.

### Topics

#### The R language
My main tool of choice for data analysis is the R programming language. Why R?
Well, it's what they used in my second workplace, and so far I'm yet to be convinced to give it up for the alternatives.

#### Working as an analyst
"Doing data analysis" includes writing scripts, pulling from databases, working with spreadsheets and making plots.  
But all of this is only part of being an analyst. Sometimes, I will write about these other parts, such as: project workflow, working with stakeholders, designing your output for the audience, working on the right thing, asking good questions, when to say 'No.' to requests, when to say 'Alternatively...' to requests.

#### Organising and integrating analytics teams
No individual is perfect.  
No organisation is perfect.  
No team is perfect.  

So if you are worried because you are not perfect, the team you are on isn't using best practice, or your organisation doesn't know what to do with a team of analysts - take some solace in that you are in good company.

That said, we should strive to be better at all of these things. Not because we will become perfect, but because we will be better for it - and no one likes to feel like they are stagnating.

#### What is the purpose data analysis
With more tools, more data, more people, more money and more conversations about data analysis it's easy to not see the wood for the trees.  
Every now and then, I will step back, do some navel gazing and try to ask - "What's the goal of all this?"